# Ensemble Learning

## Abstract

**A potent machine learning technique called
ensemble learning combines several weak learners to produce a
strong, stable model with better prediction precision as well as
stability. This study provides an extensive examination of
ensemble learning algorithms and their implications in
cybersecurity, with a particular focus on bagging and boosting.
Sequential and parallel ensemble types are distinguished, and
the latter is further subdivided into heterogeneous and
homogeneous ensembles. Robustness and accuracy are the
foundations of ensemble models' performance, and diversity
across the merged models plays a critical role in improving
predictive accuracy and resolving problems like overfitting and
high-dimensional data. Ensemble learning has enormous
potential to improve cybersecurity with probable usage in threat
intelligence, computer security, anomaly detection, fraud
detection, malware identification, intrusion detection, and
phishing prevention. Organizations can enhance detection and
preventive actions and create more secure systems and networks
by utilizing the capabilities of several models. As ensemble
learning continues to progress, real-time analytics and adaptive
learning will be further strengthened, strengthening
cybersecurity defenses against ever-changing threats.**
